			Mandelbrot Fractal Program

1. What is it?

This directory contains the parallel Mandelbrot ploting program. 

There are three REAL programs: 

	fractal.c (the sequential fractal program), 
	frclnt.c (master) and 
	frwrk.c (worker). 

There are a number of load balancing algorithms that can show interesting
properties of parallel processing:

	o Enter: %chunking
		will create a version of manual fixed chunking program.
	o Enter: %factoring
		will create a version of manual factoring (variable size
		partitioning) program.
	o Enter: %auto
		will create a version of automatic load balancing using
		fixed chunking.

2. What to see?

The default display mode is off. This way the X overhead will not be interfaring
with the timing measureas. If you do want to see the pretty pictures, please
change the pre-processor symbol: DISPLAY 0 to 1 in frclnt.c (after the above
steps).

3. How to tune?

The application configuration file is fractal.csl. You can modify 
it to change the scheduling parameters, such as factor and threshold.
 
When using factoring, the "factor =" clause defines 
the scheduling parameter ( 0 < factor <=100). Usually the smaller 
values give better performance, if your hosts are very different in 
capacity (or MFLOPS rating). Otherwise, a large factor value may be
required to run things fast. If your machines are very powerful, say at
100 MFLOPS grade, you can define threshold (in the "threshold =" clause)  
to be of a bigger value. This can save some communication time. You are 
challenged to find the best factor and threshold values for your own 
operating environment. 

When using fixed chunking (frclnt.c.chunk), the load blancing solution is buit 
into the fractal master (frclnt.c). To by-pass the automatic load balancing
feature, define factor > 0. In this case, the threshold value defines the 
grain size of the tester computation.

4. Other Information

The header file: fractal.h defines the plotting parameters, such as 
the input domain range, display resolution, maximal iteration limit 
(max number of colors), etc. It also contains the definitions of tuple 
data structures.

The sequential Mandelbrot program produces a stat file to record the 
timing statistics. The file name is fr_seq.s93. The parallel program 
(frclnt.c) also produces a stat file named fr_stat.s93 recording the 
results of each experiment.

There are many commented printf statements in the program files. You 
may uncomment them to see how the programs work in parallel. But comment 
them out when you do timing studies.

The makefile links the X11 header files and library for the setting we have
in the lab. You may have to change the path to suite your installations.
